---
layout: post
title:  "Why NODEJS?"
date:   2019-04-05
desc: "Covering what , when , why - NodeJS. "
keywords: "open source, javascript, programming , nodejs, node, serverside, npm, js, code, frontend, backend"
categories: [open source, javascript, programming , nodejs, node, serverside, npm,js,code,frontend, backend]
tags: [open source, javascript, programming , nodejs, node, serverside, npm, js, code, frontend, backend]
icon: icon-nodejs
---

“__Node.js__ is a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime for easily building fast, scalable network applications. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.” – This is what the NODEJS webpage says but if you are a beginner then this will hardly ring a bell. So, let me break it down.

__Event-driven__ means that the server only reacts when an event occurs. This allow us to create high performance, highly scalable, “real-time” application. __Non-blocking I/O  model__ means that you can run your I/O request asynchronously without blocking your application. In this programming model open/read/write/update operation on devices and resources managed by the file-system don't block the calling thread. For e.g. A real time chat app, interactive games can be created with very high performance using NODE. 
<br><br>
## <u>My thoughts :</u>

My feeling is that Node.js is especially suited for applications where you'd like to maintain a persistent connection from the browser back to the server. Doing heavy load on many of the web's giants, like __Ruby on Rails__ (Ruby Framework) or __Django__ (Python Framework), would create immense load on the server, because each active client eats up one server process but NODE handles this in a different, better way. It's worth mentioning that Ruby and Python both have tools to do this sort of thing (__event machine__ and __twisted__, respectively), but that __Node.js__ does it exceptionally well, and from the ground up. 

It's also worth pointing out that __Node.js__ is also great for situations in which you'll be reusing a lot of code across the client/server gap. The Express framework makes this really easy, and a lot of developers, including me, are suggesting this might be the future of web development. 

All I can say from my experience that it's a whole lot of fun to write code in NODE, and a big part of this is spending less time thinking about how you're going to plan certain logic. It runs Javascript, so you can use the same language on server and client, and even share some code between them.
<br><br>
## <u> Just a fact :</u> 
Companies like __NetFlix, PayPal, LinkedIn, Walmart, Uber, Ebay, NASA, Google, Yahoo, Mozilla, Github, Microsoft, New York Times, Wall street journal, GoDaddy__ and many others use NODEJS in production. 
<br><br>
## <u> The Fun Part :</u>

So why should one be using NODE? Let’s point out the obvious.

- One of the great thing about __NODEJS__ is, it’s everywhere. Yes, you hear that right. __EVERYWHERE!__ You can write _web applications, desktop applications, mobile applications, cloud services, Internet Of Things projects, APIs_ and many more using NODE. 

- __Open Source:__ NODEJS is an open source platform, which means it is easily accessible and maintained by the best developers around the world. It’s source code is easily available. It is secure, flexible and free. 

- __The ever-growing NPM packages:__ Being an open-source technology, __NodeJS__ has a shared repository of good-to-go tools and modules. The number of modules in the Node Package Manager (NPM) has increased at a exponential pace, overtaking the RoR (Ruby on Rails) gems and PHP bundles. At over _350,000_ packages, the npm registry contains more than double the next most populated package registry (which is the Apache Maven repository). In fact, it is currently the _largest package registry_ in the world. In the preceding four weeks, users installed 18 billion packages. Daily 500 packages are uploaded to the npm community. This simply means that you will find what you are searching for.

- __Cross Platform:__ __Node.js__ is cross-platform means it works on _Windows, OSX and Linux_. A large number of the Node.js community write Node.js on OSX and then deploy to Linux servers. Applications made from NODEJS also can run on both iOS and android.

- __Lightweight and Extensible:__ __Node.js__ is based on JavaScript which can be executed on client side as well as server side. Also, it supports exchange of data using JSON which is easily consumed by JavaScript. This makes it light weight as compared to other frameworks. _Node.js is open source_. Hence you can extend it as per your needs.

- __Easy to Learn:__ According to Node.js’s 2016 User Survey Javascript is one of the most popular programming languages for front-end development. Nearly every front-end developer is familiar with this universal language. Therefore, it is much easier for them to switch to using Node.js at the back-end. It requires less effort and less time to learn and work with, even for a junior Javascript programmer.

<br>
Personally, I love _JavaScript_ and its weirdness. So these were my small thoughts on _why one should consider __NODEJS__._
If you are already using or familiar with __NODE__ then leave your thoughts in the comment below and why you use __NODE__. I would love to read your answers.
 


